Spellbinder Gameplay

NOTE: I bought this playfield and backglass from Ted Estes in about 2003 who had these items at his house after Williams had gone out of business. He said he came into possesion of them simply
because they were on his office wall at the new WMS factory up north, he believed that they were down at California Ave originally on the walls before his time. I also bought a very 
poor condition backglass at Pinball Expo 1998 for $50 from someone that showed up with a bunch of random old Williams factory parts and prototype PCB's. These are the only two
backglasses I have ever seen and the only Playfield I have ever seen.

I also reached out to Barry Oursler who was the original designer of this game in about 2013. He said this...

I wish I could be more help, but this was over 30 years ago. I don't have any documentation on the game. The game wasn't around very long, so I didn't have 
much time to play it like I would a pinball game. The only feature that I remember was a "bonus round" where you would shoot at the dragon targets along the 
back. Every time you hit it, he would reverse his direction. It was an idea that I took from the old electro-mechanical gun games where you shoot the "bear". 
You have to hit him before he ran off on either side. Every time you hit him, he would growl and reverse direction.

So, that is all I have to go on. I did receive some handwritten documents showing the switch and lamp matrix... unfortunately those got 'lost' in my divorce which sucks.


Upon Power On the game will show 00 in both player displays and loop through attract mode. During attract mode, hitting the 'Cast Spell' button will show the high
score leader. The (PSD) player status display (commonly known as the Match/Ball in play) will be blank.

Pressing the Player 1 button will start a game with the adjustable number of wizards on Player 1. Pressing the player 1 button after this will do nothing
until the player 1 game is over. Pressing the Player 2 start button will start a 2 player game. Pressing the Player 2 button after this will do nothing 
until both players games have ended.

Upon game start, the game will announce the game play has started using the display on on the playfield. "Prepare to Battle... Player 1".

'Wizards Remaining' on the playfield will light up for the number of Wizards the current player has remaining. Only 5 wizards can be shown but additional wizards can be earned.

Level 1 will start with a random enemy flashing and then counting down by sucessively faster flashing. If the enemy completes the flashing cycle, the current player takes a
damage point as shown on the Axe display



Speech Phrases

You are the Spellbinder
Welcome Spellbinder
You died horribly
You died gracefully
You died 
Enemy Defeated
Enemy Frenzy
You defeated the Dragon
You slayed the Dragon
Bonus Wizard
Spell of Protection
Spell of Power


Unique Words
You
Are
The 
Spellbinder
Welcome
died
horribly
gracefully
Enemy
Defeated
Dragon 
Slayed
Bonus
Wizard 
Spell of
Protection
Power
